I want the game to be a slow paced idle game where a person
wakes up in a world with no technology and has to get to work to start living
by gathering resources and food it will be possible to survive.
Contrary to many other idle games i want it to be possible to lose or deprogress,
deprogression should happen if the player mismanages resources, for example having
too much population and not enough food.
However it should always be possible to leave the game in a state where deprogression is
impossible, so the player isn't forced to return to it within a set time frame.

The games main mechanics should consist of population jobs and resources.
early jobs could be:

gathering sticks,
gathering stones,
gathering berries,
hunting for food,
thinking,
exploring,
build shelter,
play / hobbies (to increase happiness)

when the player works the player should lose stamina, and when stamina runs low
the player will have to tend to jobs that doesn't require stamina, like thinking,
resting, being creative, playing, relaxing with family, look into a fire.
There could be hobbies that will earn the player better stats, excercise could improve stamina
and playing music could improve intellect.

even though the main character will be important early game, i want the game to develop
into a management game, where workers are a resource, and it's not perticularly about
the main character anymore, except as a point of view from which the story can be told.
Maybe the main character will become a mayor, and be the one doing the management,
or the manager a.k.a the real life player, could be some unknown entity that some
IG workers make humourous comments about from time to time.


when the player thinks he will think up new ideas, like combining sticks and stone to an axe
which will open up new jobs: cutting wood instead of only gathering.
I want the game to have lots of different resources, and always specific resources.
Nothing generic like "food". Food or editable can be a resource trait, but should never be
the resource itself. 
So: black berries, elder berries, blue berries, strawberries and ofcourse also other editable plants that i will google later. 
likewise with meat: deer meat, boar meat, rabbit meat, never just "meat".
Hunted animals should also give fur claws/teeth, and the likes.
There should be spoilage to resources if the player doesn't have the proper technologies / storage
capabilities. And some resources spoil fast while others spoild slowly.
Bones are way more durable then meat.
Houses lasts for a very long time.
likewise; a shelter should also degrade over time, and even get destroyed,
if the player doesn't set aside time to do repair work (repairs could also be a job).

It should be possible to hunt animals with traps, but traps should first be build.
A trap could be build from sticks and rope, rope could, at first, be made from plants.
And later some other material. I'll have to do a lot of reading up on how things are made
and what materials are used in different processes.

The game could implement weather: 
in rainy or stormy weather degration will happen faster.
The players mood will also decrease if appropiate measure aren't taken.
If the player is working outside they can feel cold in bad weather.
And in good weather the players mood will better, and they will feel more optimistic.
managing mood/happiness should affect the players productivity.
Maybe they can even get depressed or sick and only attend to hobbies and not do any "hard work"
for a while.

The game should be punishing if risks aren't being handled.
If no shelter are being build, if food isn't stored, if there's too many people and not enough
houses, if a population are overworked and doesn't have time to do hobbies and things they enjoy,
if there's not enough entertainment.
If people are starving they won't be productive.
The game is about surviving and thriving.
But survival is hard work, and mistakes can be catastrophic.
I don't want the player to get completely demotivated,
idle games take a long time, and most people would quit if they loose too much progress.
So it's not that if you don't have food your population will slowly just die out,
and you will come back after 3 days and your whole civilization has ended.
The game should shelter into certain resting places where production meets demand.
And the player doesn't loose too much progress.






